## Stay out of Jail!

In Jailbreak, like in many other game types, your objective is to frag the opposing players—but unlike other game types, fragged players go
straight into safe custody in the enemy prison when they're killed. To get them out of there, one of their teammates will have to fight his
way into the enemy base and trigger the jail release switch that's hidden there (Jailbreak!). It is your task to defend your prison release
switch and to free your own teammates when they're in jail. If your opponents manage to get all members of your team in prison, the opposing
team will score a point, and your team will die a horrible death.

Jailbreak strongly focuses on team play and forces players to take on different roles for their team as the game goes on—defending their
release switch, going into offense to frag opponents, or attacking the enemy base to release your own team members from prison. You'll have
to be a versatile player to survive and win a game of Jailbreak.

## A Brief History of Jailbreak

Jailbreak was originally developed by Team Reaction for Quake 2 who also began an Unreal Tournament version in late 1999. The UT version was
never completed. Daikiki saw the potential for UT Jailbreak and renewed the effort to bring this unique mod to Unreal Tournament. The first
version of UT Jailbreak was released in the summer of 2000 and was quickly accepted by the Unreal community and sparked the growth of the
fiercely loyal and rapidly expanding UT Jailbreak community.

Mid-April 2001, Daikiki released the second version of UT Jailbreak, this time including a much wider range of bundled custom maps and much
better single-player support than ever before. ModSquad and other big Unreal mod review sites gave Jailbreak very favorable ratings that
were backed by community acceptance. Together with Mychaeel and ElBundee, two other Unreal community coders, Daikiki released an update to
this version shortly after that is currently still the latest public release.

In September 2001, the team consisting of Daikiki, Mychaeel and ElBundee started gathering ideas and concepts for the next generation of UT
Jailbreak, Jailbreak III. A thorough overhaul of the code base, many added features and an entirely new suite of bundled maps promise the
best UT Jailbreak experience ever. It is in internal beta stage since January 2002 and due for public release in end-March 2002.

## UT Jailbreak Features

### Bases, Prisons, and Release Switches

The basic equipment for any Jailbreak map. Stay alive or you'll be put in jail; defend your base to keep attackers out; and fight your way
into the enemy base to the switch to release your teammates.

UT Jailbreak prisons come in many shapes, and each of them has its own inventive way to end the lowly lives of the imprisoned players once
an entire team has been captured and the other team scores. Prepare to be depressurized, eaten by monsters, shot into space, drowned in
slime or extinguished in big explosions.

### The Arena

There's more than one way to get out of jail and the Arena is the honorable escape. At fixed intervals, one imprisoned player from each team
is placed in a small deathmatch arena where you will fight for your freedom. The winner is released and the loser is sent back to prison in
shame while your fellow inmates watch it all on the Jailbreak ArenaCam!

### Information at your Fingertips

The all-new heads-up display (HUD) and scoreboard of Jailbreak III provide you with all the information you need to successfully plan your
tactics: Where your teammates are, how to get to the release switch, how many of your and your opposing team's players are still running
around in freedom, how much time is left until the game ends, and how well you and your opponents have been performing so far in this match.
Use your brains to win the game.

### Frag Bots or Play Online

UT Jailbreak comes with full support of Unreal Tournament's renowned tournament bots. They don't only know how to blast you into oblivion,
they also know how to defend the release switch, and they'll fight their way into the enemy base to release you and their teammates when
necessary.

Or connect to the Internet, fire up the "Jailbreak" tab in Unreal Tournament's server browser and find fellow UT Jailbreak gamers for a
suspenseful online match. Unreal Tournament's bots fill the empty places if there aren't enough human players to make two teams and will
support their human teammates at their best.

### Life Made Easy for Server Admins

UT Jailbreak expands Unreal Tournament's built-in password-protected web interface for game server administration by its own configuration
pages. In addition, every UT Jailbreak game server whose web admin interface is enabled provides a publicly accessible web page showing the
current game status—players and their score and state, team scores, game settings—and provides an easy way to join the ongoing game.

### Full Integration in Unreal Tournament

Start UT Jailbreak from within Unreal Tournament's convenient user interface—no external launcher needed, no need to leave and restart the
game just to switch to a different game type. Play it with your favorite custom models and bots, or use it together with any mutator. UT
Jailbreak is fully configurable via intuitive dialogs and settings tabs that smoothly hook into the rest of the game.

Even better though, you can skin Jailbreak III's in-game appearance to your liking—use one of the bundled interface skins or a third-party
one to change the visual appearance of the HUD and the scoreboard to match your mood or to get a change from the usual. Even creating your
own custom skins is straightforward and easy. Some maps even have their own theme skins embedded. Get those creative juices flowing!
